Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
In this section, we're going to tackle the concept of
Content Management Systems, also known as CMS.
It's a term and a type of system that you simply...
you're really not going to escape this.
If you work pretty much anywhere on the web... ever,
you're going to have to interact with one of these things.
So writers, they post their writing through them,
web developers, they spend all day pretty much customizing them,
and software engineers, they install them and build plugins for them.
So what are we talking about?
A content management system is an application that helps you
as a website owner or a website developer - you guessed it
- well, manage your content.
Fair warning, the word "content" is probably the most vague term
ever devised in the history of the internet.
Your uncle's vaguely racist Facebook
post about immigrants - well, that's content.
A blog post telling people the top 10 things to do in Paris, that is content,
even though you can find it on 1,000 other blogs.
Any infographic, let's say, explaining the top five productivity tips
used by the world's richest people - almost entirely contrived and 100% content.
Content just means anything you as the owner create and put online.
Typically we think of blogs, posts, images, graphs, PDFs,
guides, instructional videos like this to be content.
Important distinction here is that we're talking
about the site owner or the site contributor.
Someone who posts angry comments on YouTube,
which is what I think YouTube is exclusively used for nowadays,
that's not technically creating content.
The idea here is that any piece of content has some sort of value to it
and can be treated as an asset.
It might be an asset with barely any obvious worth,
such as everything posted ever by Business Insider or Vox.com,
but it is still content nonetheless.
When the first websites started popping up, what were they used for?
Well, sharing research information.
That information was the world's first online content.
Ok, well, in the meantime, millions of people have tried to post millions of things
and if you're starting from absolute scratch,
well, there's a lot you have to do that has absolutely nothing to do
with creating the content you so want to share with the world.
Let's say I wanted to make a site that posts
my favorite cooking recipes in a pre-CMS world.
I would have to make a page that listed out my recipes.
It would need things like a logo, a navigation bar,
a place to display my content, a way of formatting everything
that fits on all sorts of different screen sizes and mobile screens even,
a way to share things with readers, maybe even a way to comment
and engage with the people who read what you just posted.
The list really just goes on and on. You'd have to build a lot.
But if in order to publish just a simple site
of recipes I had to build all of that from scratch,
then, well, number one, sites would look ridiculously basic, and
number two, not very many people would create websites
because the barrier to creating them would be way too high.
That perfectly describes the world of the internet in the mid-1990s,
back when Google didn't exist so you couldn't ever find anything
and every site looked pretty much like Oregon Trail.
Remember that game?
So that was the setup.
The stage was set and there was clearly a need for something better,
and thus content management systems were born - big honking massive applications
that could be installed on a web server and then let a website owner create
and manage their website through intuitive
and non-programmatic administration panels.
Now, instead of coding from scratch every single blog post,
you could login to your CMS and click on the "blog" tab,
and then write in a rich text editor your blog piece.
You could edit it right there, you could format it right there,
you could add photos, and then you
could publish, and the system would take care
of making the images and text display correctly on all devices and screens.
And that's not all that CMS's handle but it's the most common function.
They let you easily have a template website, and they let you easily add
and manage commenting, you can track analytics, you can share information,
you can store user submitted content, it can even let you
make changes easily to how your site works and looks, etc.
They were essentially an all-in-one package for you to create a site
without being a programmer and without
having to spend tons of time and money
on the things that every single basic site needs to have.
So, in this section, we're going to take apart how they work,
how they look, how they differ, and how would you choose
one over the other depending on your project needs.
See you in the next lecture!